than you Mr President colleagues finding
a way to better support African Union Le
peace support operations is a priority
for the United States in 2016 we
spearheaded Security Council resolution
2320 which cemented the consensus behind
the idea of Burden sharing between the
United Nations and the African Union to
support the deployment and sustainment
of these
operations that resolution was adopted
unanimously by the council with all
council members to reach consensus on
this draft resolution and we commend the
pen holders for their efforts as
well and to be
clear there are many important elements
in this draft resolution that the United
States
supports but there is one critical
element that this resolution lacks an
explicit delineation of the financial
burden that UN member states will need
to bear for these
operations as drafted we interpret the
draft resolution as not repeat not 100%
funding from the UN since it only
provides for quote uh quote appropriate
unquote amount of un
funding but in order to remove any
possible ambiguity we believe that the
resolution should be as clear as
possible on this
point not only on principle but because
a clear and actionable resolution will
pave the way for the timely deployment
of a future Au peace support operation
and resolving this possible ambiguity is
an important step to get us there
accordingly the United States is
proposing this amendment to include a
specific limit on un contributions in
clear language in this draft resolution
and ensure that all stakeholders are on
the same page about what this resolution
means we urge all Security Council
Members who would like this draft
resolution to be adopted unanimously to
also vote Yes to include this amendment
in the draft thank you Mr
President
the United States for their
statement members of the council have
before them a proposed amendment
submitted by the United States of
America to the text of the draft
resolution contained in document s
9996 of the council's provisional rules
and procedure States in alia the
following when an amendment
T of a motion or dra
resolution shall be voted on
first
accordingly Amendment to the vote
first of the proposed amendment
contained stroke 2023 stroke
one23 please raise their
hand
in Contra
against abion
extensions the result of the Voting is
as follows nine votes in favor
zero votes
against six
extensions the proposed amendment has
been
adopted now give the floor to the
representative of
France thank you Mr
President was unfortunately unable to
support the amendment submitted by the
United States it believes
indeed that it was insufficiently clear
on the financing of the 25% that would
not be covered by assess
contributions believe that one of the
key elements of today's discussion and
this resolution is precisely to ensure
that Au Le operations in this context
can predictable financing we believe
that this does not meet that criteria we
want toat
we are resolutely committed to
supporting
through contributions Au Le peacekeeping
operations
however we wish to see the African
contribution be significant as well but
we are prepared to discuss the various
levels of financial contribution France
and the EU are major contributors to un
peacekeeping budgets uh representing
some 24% of the total we have
consistently supported the build up
African Peace operations and we wish to
see discussions continue so that we can
achieve a balanced and predictable
funding
framework I thank the representative of
France
for
v23 999 as
amended now the dra resolution to the
vote favor of the dra resolution
contained in document s stroke 2023
stroke
999 as
amended raise their
hand the result of the Voting is as
follows 13 votes in favor the draft
resolution has been adopted
by 19
15 15 votes he said 13
no uh please excuse me says the
president I didn't hear the number
correctly the dra resolution received 15
votes
hased resolution
2719 make a statement following the
vote V representative of
Gabon as a member of the A3 like to
thank all of the members of the security
Council for the adoption of the T that
was submitted this evening this
afternoon will this will open a new page
for
Africa Every
Time meets itation such as today it
shows that is a ramper a deterrent
against war and it revives hope for
future
Generations the resolution adopted the
south is important message from the
United Nations to uh and the
international
to the
African it's response to the legitimate
aspirations of these people to uh
dignity and respect given the
Persistence of deadly conflicts on the
continent as
Africans we have been constructively
self-critical with regard to the
effectiveness of mechanisms and the
Prov meis in place we have full
confidence in Africa being able to solve
its own
problems the but insecurity is
constantly changing and there are
asymmetrical threat to
Peace So Many conflicts in different
areas of the continent therefore we've
been to change our Paradigm not only
with regard to our means of action to
address these issues but also with
regard to the very image of the African
continent which is very very often seems
to be one war and one crisis ethnic
political conflicts displacement of
people Refuge counts um misery
dependence Mr President the financial
resources are also the heart of war and
they are the heart of Peace as well for
a long time the African Union depended
on donations from the International
Community Trend
ties because the contributions from the
are not disinterested or
philanthropic depending on the
circumstances
lead Mercantile and transactional
approaches to situations in certain
cases we would underscore that
Africa still has the sad record
of the highest number of peacekeeping
operations of the United Nations of the
16 underway at the moment n
have been on the African
continent words the in that tells you a
lot about the instability on the
continent but at the same time the
continent is facing a number of uh
existing threats and future threats
today the security Council
has been able to address the spirit and
the letter of the charter of the United
Nations by agreeing to an assential
plan M responsibility in the area of the
maintenance of International Peace and
security
Africa peoples are of the world that is
stressed at the beginning of the United
Nations Charter and
finally are going to be able to enjoy
the same aspirations for security and
dignity as everyone else which
means sh addressing the threats to
security and uh that the funding will
come from the regular budget we welcome
the unity around this table to
a here and show that the International
Community is undivided on this we know
that in order to regulate uh these
situations deal with conflicts we need
to go
further
act to address the causes of conflicts
in Africa we can only address them if we
have a more broad approach addressing
socio economic issues and living
conditions once again I thank you very
much for allowing us this security thank
you I thank the representative of Gab
for his statement I now give the floor
to the representative of
mosambi Sir
president mosambi wishes to
express its profound
gratitude to the members of the security
Council for the adoption
of this important draft
resolution on financing of African Union
lead peace support
operations proposed by the
A3 that is gabon Ghana and my own
country
mosambik the framework
resolution just
adopted translates our objective to
address the concerns of Africa that have
been Penning for many
years at its core is the need to give
appropriate responses to the growing and
evolving security challenges on the
African
continent challenges that uh comprise
conflicts
Insurgency Progressive africanization of
terrorism and proliferation of extremist
armed
groups
da3 has impacted on this
action with the conviction that the
enforcement action by the African Union
will be undertaken on behalf of the
United Nations security Council whose
primary
responsibility as the chter
prescribes is
the
maintenance of International Peace and
security latest developments in the
world show more than ever that peace and
security are a global good and they
cannot be
segmented by continents or
regions this is what makes is it
important the adoption of uh the present
resolution on financing of the African
Union Leed peace support
operations this Landmark framework
resolution is aimed at providing
enforcement actions led by the African
Union with the
predictable and sustainable funding
using the United Nations
assessed
contributions in supporting this
resolution the
council will ensure that financing of
African Union lead support operations
can better respond to our need for
funding from the United Nations assessed
contributions and I thank you Mr
President thank the representative of
for statement and I'll give the floor to
the representative of the United States
uh thank you Mr President colleagues two
weeks ago Ambassador Thomas Greenfield
traveled to Ghana for the United Nations
peacekeeping
ministerial and while she was in Acra
she spoke to a group of young leaders at
the kofan international peacekeeping
Training
Center she told them that Africans
deserve a better vision for security a
vision that puts African leadership at
the Forefront and African people at the
center and that as an International
Community we have the responsibility to
finance and Empower Au missions to that
end and indeed the United States is
pleased to support this framework
resolution which outlines the conditions
under which the UN Security Council
would consider authorizing a Le peace
support operations with access to un
assessed
contributions we recognize the au's
important contributions with respect
to the psos it has already
deployed and we applaud the au's
partnership with the UN in developing
common Frameworks on human rights
conduct and discipline for those
operations as we look to the future we
want to take a moment to highlight a few
key elements of this
resolution
first first it underscores the Primacy
of politics and the need for a coherent
political strategy to guide any op
operation second it notes that any
support to AUP psos must be in full
compliance with the un's human rights
due diligence
policy third it emphasizes that these
operations must include appropriate
safeguards for the protection of
civilians and fourth it outlines that
any PSO receiving unss contributions
will be authorized by and ultimately
accountable to this Council for
implementation of its mandate and to the
ga for appropriate and reasonable use of
funds and finally it specifies a burden
sharing agreement namely that un
contributions to Au psos will be no more
than 75% of the cost of the operations
annual
budget We Stand ready to work with
Security Council Members and the African
Union to determine how the remainder of
the budget would be financed whether
through an au Financial contribution
voluntary contributions in kind
contributions or some contribution
thereof I want to end by expressing the
United States gratitude to the A3 for
their flexibility as copens in helping
put our shared principles to paper as
well as to Ghana for its partnership and
Leadership throughout this
process as we're near the end of Ghana's
time on the council we are eager to
cement its Legacy by moving forward with
au financing to ensure peace on a
continent faced with numerous security
threats and we look forward to seeing
this resolution implemented so that the
Au can face those challenges head on
thank you Mr
President I thank the representative of
the United
States the floor to the representative
of
France thank you Mr President France
would like to congratulate the A3 for
having been able to um bring about the
option of this important resolution in
recent years we have supported the
partial funding of Peace operations
conducted by the African Union with
assessed member State contributions of
the United Nations the framework
resolution is a step towards this go and
we welcome that it provides
clarification Ely clarification with
regard to this to these operations there
will be robust peace operations limited
over time with a clearly identified exit
strategy we also the fact that this
resolution has a clear decision making
process that's reasonable and it clearly
recalls the financial
regulatory conditions that are applied
once the United Nations funding is
mobilized as others within this Council
we would have liked this text to be more
precise with regard to the funding of
the uh these operations to be funded by
the African Union and its members we
made several creative proposals to find
a unanimous agreement and those
proposals could and should have been
better reflected in the text we mustn't
lose sight of the fact that discussions
on a Case by case b will probably be
urgent
discussions situations where we will
have to respond to crises and unanimous
agreement on the cost sharing terms
would have allowed us to avoid sensitive
discussions in the future so that we
could concentrate on the best
multilateral response to apply to
restore peace France is available to
continue discussions on this very
important issue for the African Union
for the United Nations where everyone
that wants
more effective solutions to be applied
to African crises thank you I thank the
representative of France for her
statement and I'll give the floor to the
representative of Brazil thank you Mr
President Brazil welcomes the approval
of this resolution and commends the A3
countries for their leadership in its
negotiating process we also extend our
appreciation to council members for
their constructive engagement in
achieving this groundbreaking outcome it
was extremely complex but definitely
worth it we believe that the unanimous
adoption of this resolution by the
security Council sends a strong message
of support by the International
Community to the indispensable role
played by African countries African
Regional economic communities and the
African Union inur uring peace and
Security in the continent in a
challenging moment for the multilateral
system especially regarding peacekeeping
operations this resolution offers
Innovative approaches that could Inspire
us to think outside of the box in our
search for solutions for the many
International Security crisis we now
face I would like to emphasize that the
focus on funding peace support
operations should not overshadow other
critical aspects in addressing Africa's
security challenges effective political
strategies especially those aimed at
conflict prevention and that addressing
the root causes of conflict should be
prioritized both by the UN and by the
African Union and their member states we
sincerely hope that the framework
provided by this resolution will
concretely benefit Africa and World
security as a whole thank
you the representative of Brazil for his
statement and I give the floor to the
representative of the United Kingdom
president and I want to start by
appreciating the role and the work of
Ghana Gabon and mosambique working with
the African Union Commission in seeking
to develop a framework for un support to
Future African Union Le operations and I
think it goes without saying that the UK
recognizes the important role that
African Union peace support operations
can play in delivering peace and
Security in
Africa the UK voted in favor of today's
resolution which represents a
significant
breakthrough as we look ahead we
recognize that more work will be needed
to ensure that any future African Union
Le operation can access the sustainable
and predictable financing that it needs
and that requires Clarity on financial
and logistical burden sharing
Arrangements between the UN the African
Union and other contributors Beyond
elements for which contributors would
already expect to receive
reimbursement we also want to ensure
that the UN Security Council given its
mandate for International Peace and
security is fully involved and consulted
from the outset in the development of
any peace support operation this will
help us work hand inand with the
aupc to design a countable effective and
efficient missions of the
future and we very much look forward to
working with Council colleagues in the
coming months to cement today's
achievement and to ensure that we have a
workable framework that enables African
union-led Peace support operations to
meet the peace and security challenges
faced in Africa and helps to silence the
guns I thank
you I thank the representative of the
United Kingdom for her statement I the
floor now to the representative of Mal
president Malta voted in favor of this
resolution because we believe that a new
season in peace operations missions
needs to emerge within the security
Council with this resolution we
acknowledge the changing nature nature
of conflicts in Africa and the need to
draw on a range of international
responses to fit specific complex
operating environments and evolving
threats we ALS we will also open the way
to peace enforcement when necessary
implementing a clear robust and focused
mandate with a limited duration and time
and an exit strategy defined from the
outset at the same time we collectively
affirm the Primacy of politics and the
need for coherent political strategies
for African Union Le peace support
operations authorized by the security
Council these strategies will have a
holistic approach and address the root
causes of of
conflict with this resolution we agree
on a clear decision making and
authorization process more importantly
we set a minimum of compliance standards
that will characterize all future AUP
PSO missions the protection of civilians
will always be
prioritized we are also pleased to share
that the African Union significantly
strengthened its International
humanitarian law human rights and
conduct and discipline compliance
framework with the support of the
European Union president this framework
resolution is a step towards it's a step
forward from from Case by case
resolutions that provide partial un
assessed contributions we support the
intention of the A3 to achieve a
situation in which predictable funding
is secured for AUP support
operations we cannot deny that no
agreement has we cannot deny that no
agreement has been achieved yet on
burden sharing having said that we
consider the amended text as adopted Ed
as a compromise to move forward on this
point we must be clear the
responsibility for the funding of these
missions should not rest with one
country or one Regional group alone
ambitious actions Demands a collective
efforts contributions for future AUP
psos must come from All actors as it has
been stated in the resolution we voted
for President as a European Union member
State let me now sh the eu's position on
the resolution the European Union
supports the use of un assessed
contributions and compliance with
relevant agreed standards and
mechanism we welcome the commitment of
the African Union sub Regional
organizations and its member states to
contribute significantly to the African
Union Le peace support operations
following today's Milestone operation
and building on our existing partnership
we look forward to working closely with
the African Union and African member
states in implementing this resolution
thank
you thank the representative of Malta
for statement I now give the floor to
the representative of Albania thank you
Mr President we also commend Ghana and
the3 for their active role in
facilitating the negotiations on this
significant framework resolution on
African Union peace support operations
and for their continued engagement with
all member states in the security
Council Albania voted in favor of this
framework resolution and the amendment
proposed by the United States because we
believe that only by addressing in the
best possible inclusive and holistic
manner all key pertinent issues such
decision-making process Financial
Arrangements burden sharing and human
rights compliance this resolution may be
properly implemented and bring the
intended and desired impact
significantly this framework resolution
reaffirms the commitment of taking
effective steps to advance the
partnership between the United Nations
and the African Union
in line with chapter seven chapter eight
of the of the charter this commitment
extends to building Greater Regional and
National ownership while emphasizing the
pital role of the security Council in
maintaining International Peace and
security while more clarity and
predictability on the burden sharing of
the part of the financing that will not
or may not be covered by the assessed
contributions will be needed we believe
nonetheless that this decision is one of
the most consequential ones taken since
years with an expected important impact
in crucial matters for peace and
Security in Africa and Beyond and I
thank
you the representative of Albania for
his to the representative of
Switzerland thank you Mr President we
welcome the unanimous adoption of the
draft
resolution Switzerland would like to
thank G and M for their efforts during
the negotiation process for the draft
resolution on the financing
African L peace support operations this
process began in May under the Swiss
presidency of the council during which
we discussed the secretary General's
report on the
subject and it's an important step for
the new agenda for peace from the
outs welcome the three Initiative for a
new Council decision to ensure
predictable sustainable and flexible
funding
Au Le peace support operations to
fulfill their mandates peacekeeping
missions must be able to rely on
predictable sustainable and flexible
funding this also applies to African
Union Le peace support operations
authorized by this
Council Switzerland has consistently
worked to achieve this in 2018 when the
council had already considered this
issue it co-sponsored the draft
resolution we also done so today with
the draft proposed by the a during
negotiations Switzerland was Keen to
show its support and play a constructive
role in this negotiation process aiming
to promote conciliation between
positions this resolution recognizes the
significant contributions of the African
Union to the maintenance of
International Peace and security on the
continent it also recognizes the
significant progress and efforts of the
African Union in integrating and
implementing international human rights
law international humanitarian law and
standards of conduct and
discipline we now invite all parties to
contribute to the best of their ability
to the implementation of this framework
resolution in particular we appeal to
everyone's willingness to find
compromises for future negotiations on a
caseby Case basis this is a decisive
step for the future of African Union Le
peace support operations and it's a
model for other organizations and this
is done to promote peace and security on
the continent I thank
you thank the representative of
Switzerland for her statement and I give
the floor to the representative of
China Mr President China welcomes the
unanimous adoption of the trough
resolution submitted by A3 at the
security Council China voted in favor of
the draft text and co-sponsor the draft
resolution over the years the African
Union and the African sub Regional
organizations have been actively
carrying out autonomous peacekeeping
operations and made great contributions
and sacrifices to maintain stability and
silence for guns in Africa Le resolution
supports the consideration by the secret
Council as requested by the Au on the
case by case basis of the financing of a
support operations from the UN assess
contributions this will help address the
issue of funding which has been of
concern to African countries for many
years and will help to deepen
cooperation between the and Au I'd like
to highlight the following points first
when addressing the issue of financing
for AOS it is important to reflect the
fundamental principle of resolving
African problems in African ways China
has put forward a number of views and
proposals during the consultations which
have been positively taken on by the A3
we hope that in the future you support
to AOS will give full play to the
principle of African leadership and
African ownership ownership second the
protection of Human Rights is part of
the Mandate of peacekeeping operations
and we should not have preconceived and
biased views on AOS the Cil future
deliberations on financing for a psos
should not be linked to human right
rights
issues cooperation between the Au and
the UN on the issue of funding so that
valuable resources can be utilized when
there are most be needed in Africa
traditional developed country donors
should not reduce their support funding
for also be considered in a holistic
manner with operation we support the
streamlining and optimization of some of
the UN peacekeeping operations in order
to avoid duplication of inputs and waste
of
China has long a supporter of addressing
African problems in African ways and has
provided financial and Equipment support
through bilateral and multilateral
channels for the enhancement of Africa's
autonomous peacekeeping capacity China
is ready to work with all countries to
continue to make greater contributions
to maintaining peace and stability in
Africa I thank you Mr
[Music]
President representative
of I give the floor to the
representative of
Japan I would like to start by thanking
and congratulating the A3 for their
initiative in crafting this important
resolution it truly shows African
ownership Japan has voted in favor since
we believe this resolution will
contribute to addressing The Perennial
challenge of enhancing the
predictability sustainability and
flexibility of financing the African ion
L peace support operations and thus
support and promote the ownership of
African countries in their efforts for
sustainable resolution of conflicts in
Africa from now on the council will
consider on a Case by case basis
requests from the African Union peace
and Security Council for financing AUP
psos under chapter 7 and8 of the charter
to to access un assist contributions
with with certain conditions Japan fully
engaged in the consultations to ensure
that the
establish that the established mechanism
will be rightly placed in the un's
collective security system and we
believe the points we made throughout
the process should be highlighted for
future
consideration and any specific
authorization of AOS as well those
points include prioritizing ation of
conflict prevention and peaceful
settlement of disputes close un Au
coordination in joint planning mandating
appropriate burden sharing proper
oversight and accountability and strict
observance of Human Rights due diligence
policy as well as the conduct and
discipline compliance
framework in particular we saw Divergent
views at the negotiation on how to share
the cost between the UN and the Au in
this regard Japan proposed a clear
language which reflects au's stronger
ownership in
operationalizing prosp prospective
AOS this framework resolution lays out
General guidelines for the future course
of actions for the UN Security Council
and the aupo
aupc the detailed needs to be elaborated
further in case in each case of
authorization of an aupo including an
appropriate burden sharing model we
remain committed to further
consultations with all stakeholders on
possible assistance to Apsos I thank
you thank the represent of Japan
for United Arab Emirates Mr President
the United Arab Emirates welcomes
today's unanimous ad adoption of
Security Council resolution
2719 we joined our A3 colleagues in
support of this resolution because it
marks an historic milestone in our
Collective pursuit of Global Peace and
security throughout this process the UAE
has stood firmly in support of the
African position and our vote in favor
of today's amendment was to ensure that
the resolution could ultimately be
adopted this resolution breaks new
ground and sign ifies a pivotal shift in
the collaborative efforts between the
African Union and the United Nations by
agreeing to consider on a case-by casee
basis requests from the Au peace and
Security Council seeking authorization
for aued peace support operations the UN
Security Council has demonstrated in
action what it has articulated in words
many times over Regional solutions for
regional
challenges the historic adoption today
demonstrates the growing recognition of
the African Union's role as a key
partner and its capacity to lead peace
support operations on the African
continent aued peace support operations
are critical by recognizing the pressing
need for Collective action in addressing
complex security challenges this
resolution underscores the imperative
for a robust and sustainable Financial
mechanism to support the au's efforts
towards the prevention management and
resolution of conflicts on the
continent empowering the Au in this
endeavor is a Strategic investment in
the global pursuit of peace and Security
in
Africa I extend my sincere
congratulations to the African Union its
member states and all those who have
worked tirelessly towards this
groundbreaking achievement it is our
hope that this resolution serves as a
catalyst for continued partnership in
Seeking a more peaceful and prosperous
future for the peoples of Africa thank
you Mr
President than the representative of the
United Arab Emirates
for the floor to the representative of
the Russian
Federation thank you Mr
presid
Russian framework draft resolution of
the UN Security Council on the financing
of Union L peacekeeping
operations we are consistent in our
support the independent efforts of
afrian stat main peace and security on
the
continent Progressive development
ofation between the United Nations in
the African Union and sub Regional
organizations on the basis of the
principle African solu for problem the
Russian Federation voted in favor of
this resolution because we are convinced
that key to the success of African
operations is a sober assessment by the
countries of the region of existing
threats and ways of addressing them as
well as their Readiness to Bear their
RIS involved in responding to challenges
to peace and security at the same time
it is important that African countries
retain the freedom to make their own
decisions regarding the modalities for
countering threats
regardless of form of external financial
assistance weet
until the very last moment this issue
remained a stumbling
block heavily over the negotiation
process
keje to a colletive
agement the international commun
response to crisis situations in
Africa we that states reg have and
continue to prove and practice the
coherence and effectiveness of the Pan
African command and control Sy as well
as their commitments to International
standards in the area of Human Rights
and IHL Norms in the conduct of
operations it's fundamentally important
that the resolution adopted today will
increase the produc ability
sustainability and flexibility of
resources for the maintenance oface and
security on the African continent with
the EU playing a ro with this decision
the security Council expresses its
confidence in the region leadership
Region's leadership ability to address
crises in Africa and its willingness to
step up its engagement with the UN in
the interests of International
Peace at the same time the security
Council and the UN General Assembly
retain their prerogatives under the
UN we congratulate our African
colleagues on the adoption of this
resolution we thank them for their
professionalism and hard work I thank
you for your
attention
[Music]
I thank the representative of the
Russian Federation for her
statement statement in my national
capacity as representative of
Ecuador i' like to begin by recognizing
the leadership ofh
andaban in the resolution that has just
been adopted unanimously by this Council
we celebrate the adoption of this
resolution that recognizes the role of
uh peace support operations led by the
African
Union the to
harmonize maximize efforts in the
between the United Nations and the
African Union to support National and
Regional efforts to address the security
challenges of the continent this is in
line with the new agenda for peace of
the Secretary General that Ecuador
supports for these reasons eador
co-sponsored and voted in favor of this
resolution in order to contribute to
peace and security on the
council and asking that this be
implemented in a responsible manner uh
thank you very much I now resume my
functions as president of the council
there are no more names inscribed on the
list of speakers the meeting is
adjoined
for
you
spe
life